watching you hit as hard as you can
hi I'm Luke Ryan for Joe Blow calm and
welcome to movie endings explain where
we'll be taking a look at some of the
more ambiguous and discussed movie
endings that have left audiences
debating their true meaning long after
the credits of roles this time we're
going to be looking at one of the most
heatedly discussed movie endings of
recent times Christopher Nolan's
inception from 2010 the mind-bending
sci-fi thriller follows a group of
extractors who use experimental military
technology to carry out espionage of the
brain they tap it the subconscious of
their targets through a shared dream
world effectively entering the person's
mind and extracting whatever important
information they've been paid to find
Leonardo DiCaprio plays Cobb the central
figure of the film and he is given the
task of doing kind of a reverse
extraction by a businessman named Saito
the job is to plant an idea in the
targets mind an inception within the
subconscious Cobb is a master of
extraction a mind manipulator who can
get his marks to reveal their deepest
secrets in a shared dream I'm of course
assuming you have seen the movie as we
get into the ambiguity of the ending so
let's just dive right into it
Cobb find Saito in limbo a dream level
so deep that the mind is trapped there
indefinitely wherein Saito's head he has
been there for decades come back
mind you
something you once knew
this world is Mario to put this to honor
our words take a leap of faith yes
back
so he can be undead together again
[Music]
I'm let me
KOB manages to bring him out of limbo
and they both awake on a plane heading
for Los Angeles as Cobbs wife mal framed
him for her own murder when she killed
herself he had fled the US but
presumably after a phone call made by
Sato he is able to re-enter the country
and to reunite with his children the
most important element in this ending is
of course Cobb spinning top totem an
object that tells him whether or not
he's in a dream state the various totems
of the team work in different ways but
in the case of Cobb if the spinning top
spins endlessly he is still dreaming if
it topples he is back in reality after
being emotionally devastated by his wife
mouths deep delusions and death
following her descent into dream worlds
Cobb is obsessed with checking whether
or not he is in fact dreaming and the
totem is his direct link to verify
reality once he's home at the end of the
film naturally he tests his totem he's
fantasized over being reunited with his
children for so long
that he had to check he wasn't still in
a dream and that his kids weren't
projections in his mind however as they
run to the house to greet him he
abandons the spinning top and goes over
to them look who's here
[Music]
and there the film ends focused on the
spinning top
it's an ending to a gripping film that
is destined to either a vocal round of
applause or heavy groan after so much
investment in the story some people want
to know if it was real and yet some
people are content without having it
spelled out to them here's some of the
clues that could point towards either
answer to starters it seems unlikely
that Sato could simply make a phone call
and clear Cobbs name completely Cobb
himself is practically amazed and seems
as if he can hardly believe his re-entry
into the country but unlikely doesn't
mean impossible and Saito was clearly a
businessman with quite a bit pull so I'd
say it's unlikely but still plausible
many people have pointed out that the
spinning top totem also belonged to Mao
so you could argue that it might not
even work totally for Cobb seeing as
she's no longer alive but they did both
use it and the idea is that the user
knows the exact weight and feel of the
object so I think that point is pretty
thin
then there's Cobbs children whose faces
we don't fully and clearly see until the
end of the film they appeared to be the
same age in both his last memory of them
and in the ending even though there's a
couple of years between the two so maybe
it's a projection of his children well
you can debate how similar the memory
and the ending version of the children
look but there are actually two sets of
actors credited as playing both of them
so there is a subtle difference in their
age even if we never see their faces
until the end and of course the actual
spinning of the spinning top if it were
to topple at the end we would have our
definite answer Cobb is home free and in
reality yet the cut to black injects the
question of whether or not it ever will
topple now if we look even closer and
slow down the footage
Tad's not that we need to but just to
give an extended view the top does begin
to wobble surely that's a sign that it's
just about to fall over well sure but
the fact that we removed from seeing it
fall over before the credits roll will
always spark debate it wobbled but it
was still spinning that's one of the
intriguing powers of film an extra
second of footage he'll even twelve
frames could drastically add a different
spin on the end of cop story so why
don't we see the top form to let us know
the cub is still dreaming although he
doesn't care anymore
a man so driven by the truth of his
reality paranoid over checking if he is
truly awake has now literally walked
away from his obsession when the cop is
still dreaming or not one thing is for
sure he has chosen a path of caring
about something else and that's the true
completion of his characters arc to him
in that moment it doesn't matter and to
us the audience it almost doesn't matter
of course most of us want answers here's
what Christopher Nolan had to say about
it five years after the film was
released the way the end of that film
worked Leonardo DiCaprio's character
Cobb he was off with his kids he was in
his own subjective reality he didn't
really care anymore and that makes a
statement perhaps all levels of reality
are valid the camera moves over to the
spinning top just before it appears to
be wobbling it was cut to black I skip
out of the back of the theater before
people catch me and there's a very very
strong reaction from the audience
the point is objectively it matters to
the audience in absolute terms even
though when I'm watching it's fiction a
sort of virtual reality but the question
of whether that's a dream or whether
it's real is the question I've been
asked most about any of the films I've
made it matters to people because that's
the point about reality reality matters
Christopher Nolan also stated that the
idea of there being any clues in the
film to tell you whether it's a dream or
not would ruin the intentional ambiguity
of the final shot he says that there
can't be anything in the film that tells
you one way or another because then the
ambiguity at the end of the film would
just be a mistake it would represent a
failure in the film to communicate
something but it's not a mistake I put
that cut there at the end
imposing ambiguity from outside the film
that always felt like the right ending
to me it always felt like be appropriate
kick the real point of the scene and
this is why I tell people Cobb isn't
looking at the top he's looking at his
kids he's left it behind that's the
emotional significance of the thing now
many people have debated whether or not
the spinning top is really Cobbs true
totem the theories raging over what the
real deal could possibly be some
speculation points towards his wedding
ring which can be seen on his hand in
the dream world but not in the real
world others have proposed that his
children's faces are his totem and in
his dreams he never gets to see them
which would tie in very neatly with his
wife mouths own paranoia that their
children were not real and just
projections ultimately though I think
those theories are a bit too far
reaching and as complicated as Inception
can get with multiple dream levels and
distorted realities
I think the culmination of the film is
as simple as its presented it's most
likely the Cobb is awake and that he
really is being reunited with his kids
and the spinning top is one final
reminder from Nolan that sometimes you
should question your reality but
sometimes you should also make your own
[Music]
you